Initial draft for Fleet CLI. (#293)
rancher/fleet-docs: docs/install-usage-fleetCLI.md

# Install and Use Fleet CLI

> Fleet CLI is a command-line interface(CLI) that allows you to interact directly with Fleet from your local machine. It enables you to create, apply and inspect `bundles` without requiring a `GitRepo`. Typical use cases include:

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
Fleet CLI is a command-line interface (CLI) that allows you to interact directly with Fleet from your local machine. It enables you to create, apply and inspect `bundles` without requiring a `GitRepo`. Typical use cases include:
```

* Testing and previewing `bundle` contents.
* Creating bundles directly from Helm charts, Kubernetes manifests and `fleet.yaml` files.
* Checking which clusters a `bundle` would target
* Validating deployments without installing Fleet in the cluster

:::note

> You can use `fleet apply` without installing Fleet in your clusters. However, for cluster interaction (for example, `fleet target`, `fleet deploy`), Fleet must be installed. For more information, refer to [Install Fleet.](installation.md)

Reviewer: nit: just personal preference, but I'd place the period _after_ the link:
```suggestion
You can use `fleet apply` without installing Fleet in your clusters. However, for cluster interaction (for example, `fleet target`, `fleet deploy`), Fleet must be installed. For more information, refer to [Install Fleet](installation.md).
```

:::

## Install Fleet CLI

Fleet CLI is a stand-alone binary you can download from the [Fleet GitHub releases page](https://github.com/rancher/fleet/releases).

**Linux/macOS**

```bash

> curl -L -o fleet https://github.com/rancher/fleet/releases/download/v0.13.0/fleet-linux-amd64

Reviewer: This is already outdated, and will be again soon ;)
```suggestion
curl -L -o fleet https://github.com/rancher/fleet/releases/latest/download/fleet-linux-amd64
```

# Make it executable and move to PATH

chmod +x fleet

sudo mv fleet /usr/local/bin/
```

**Windows (PowerShell)**

```bash

> Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "https://github.com/rancher/fleet/releases/download/v0.13.0/fleet-windows-amd64.exe" -OutFile "fleet.exe"

Reviewer: Same remark as above:
```suggestion
Invoke-WebRequest -Uri "https://github.com/rancher/fleet/releases/latest/download/fleet-windows-amd64.exe" -OutFile "fleet.exe"
```

* `fleet apply`: creates or previews a `bundle` from local files, such as a Helm chart, Kubernetes manifests, or kustomize folders. This command does not require access to a cluster, and therefore works even without Fleet or `kubectl` installed.
  * This applies for `fleet.yaml`, Helm charts and manifests. For example, `fleet apply my-bundle ./manifests`.  
* `fleet target`: Reads a bundle file and evaluates which clusters would receive it, based on selectors and targeting rules such as `targets`, `targetOverrides`, `clusterGroups`, and `label` selectors.
  * For example, `fleet target my-bundle ./manifests.`
* `fleet deploy`: takes the output of `fleet target`, or a dumped `bundledeployment`/content resource and deploys it to a cluster, just like fleet-agent would. You can use it in these scenarios:
  * `fleet apply -o - name ./folder` to check the YAML of the bundle before creating it. For more information, refer to [Convert a Helm chart into a bundle.](#convert-a-helm-chart-into-a-bundle)
  * Use with a target to debug selectors and verify which downstream clusters are targeted.

>   * `fleet deploy --dry-run` to print the resources that would be deployed, but does not apply them.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * `fleet deploy --dry-run` to print the resources that would be deployed, but without applying them.  
```

![A diagram explaining how fleet CLI key commands work.](../static/img/fleetCLI-key-components.svg)

For more information, refer to [Bundle Lifecycle With the CLI](ref-bundle-stages.md#examining-the-bundle-lifecycle-with-the-cli).

## Deploy a Sample Bundle Using Fleet CLI

You can deploy workloads without using GitRepos by applying them locally with the CLI. For example, consider using the [Fleet examples repository](https://github.com/rancher/fleet-examples).

```bash

> git clone https://github.com/rancher/fleet-examples  

Reviewer: Has this been tested recently? I've heard of examples which may well be outdated.

cd fleet-examples/single-cluster
```

Apply it to the current cluster:

```bash
fleet apply -o my-cool-bundle manifests
```

This creates a Bundle resource in the namespace.

## Convert a Helm Chart into a Bundle

You can use the Fleet CLI to convert a Helm chart into a bundle.

For example, you can download and convert the "external secrets" operator chart like this:

```bash
cat > targets.yaml <<EOF
targets:
- clusterSelector: {}
EOF

mkdir app
cat > app/fleet.yaml <<EOF
defaultNamespace: external-secrets
helm:
  repo: https://charts.external-secrets.io
  chart: external-secrets
EOF

fleet apply --compress --targets-file=targets.yaml -n fleet-default -o - external-secrets app > eso-bundle.yaml

kubectl apply -f eso-bundle.yaml
```

Make sure you use a cluster selector in `targets.yaml`, that matches all clusters you want to deploy to.

The blog post on [Fleet: Multi-Cluster Deployment with the Help of External Secrets](https://www.suse.com/c/rancher_blog/fleet-multi-cluster-deployment-with-the-help-of-external-secrets/) has more information.

## **Troubleshooting**

If the bundle is not ready:

* Check if `fleet-controller` and `fleet-agent` pods are running.  

> * Make sure the `fleet-local` cluster is registered:  

Author: That was a typo.

> * Make sure the `fleet-local` cluster is registered.

Reviewer: This could be extended to all target clusters in general, as users may run the Fleet CLI with clusters other than the local one in mind:
```suggestion
* Make sure your target clusters are registered.
```

... by the way, we could explain in a few words how to check this and/or link to more information on cluster registration, for instance https://fleet.rancher.io/ref-registration#fleet-agent-is-registered-watches-for-bundledeployments 
We could eventually add troubleshooting info to that page, but checking that a Fleet agent is running on a given cluster is a good (albeit insuficient) first step.

* Inspect the bundle for error messages with:  

>   * `kubectl describe bundle -n fleet-local nginx-bundle`  

Reviewer: `nginx-bundle` does not seem to be mentioned anywhere else on this page...
```suggestion
  * `kubectl describe bundle -n fleet-local <bundle-name>`  
```

* Check if `fleet-controller` and `fleet-agent` pods are running.  
* Make sure the `fleet-local` cluster is registered.
* Inspect the bundle for error messages with:  
  * `kubectl describe bundle -n fleet-local <bundle-name>`  
* Delete and re-apply the bundle if you encounter Helm ownership conflicts.

## Troubleshooting

Before troubleshooting bundle or deployment issues, verify that the Fleet agent is registered and running on the downstream cluster. For details, refer to [Fleet Agent is Registered, Watches for BundleDeployments](ref-registration.md#fleet-agent-is-registered-watches-for-bundledeployments).

### Verify agent and controller status 

If a bundle is not ready:

* Verify that fleet-controller-xxxxx and fleet-agent-xxxxx pods are running.
* Verify that your target clusters are registered.

> * Ensure the cluster status shows Ready and that it has a valid agent registered.

Author: Makes sense to me.
